

# cli
`import "github.com/asifjalil/cli"`

* [Overview](#pkg-overview)
* [Index](#pkg-index)
* [Examples](#pkg-examples)

## <a name="pkg-overview">Overview</a>
Package **cli** provides access to a **DB2 database** using DB2 Call Level Interface (**CLI**) API.
This requires **cgo** and DB2 _cli/odbc_ driver **libdb2.so**.  It is not possible to use this driver to create a statically linked Go package because
IBM doesn't provide the DB2 _cli/odbc_ driver as _libdb2.a_ static library.
On **Windows**, DB2 _cli/odbc_ library is not compatiable with **gcc**, but **cgo** requires **gcc**. Hence, this driver is not
supported on Windows.

**cli** is based on *alexbrainman's* odbc package: <a href="https://github.com/alexbrainman/odbc">https://github.com/alexbrainman/odbc</a>.

This package registers a driver for the standard Go **database/sql** package and used through the
**database/sql** API.


	import _ "github.com/asifjalil/cli"

###Error Handling
The package has no exported API except two functions-**SQLCode()** and **SQLState()**-for inspecting
DB2 CLI error. The function signature is as follows:


	func (e *cliError) SQLCode() int
	func (e *cliError) SQLState() string

Since package **cli** is imported for side-effects only, use the following code
pattern to access SQLCode() and SQLState():


	func checkError(err error) {
		type sqlcode interface {
			SQLCode() int
		}
		if err != nil {
			if err, ok := err.(sqlcode); ok {
				log.Println(err.SQLCode())
			}
			log.Fatal(err)
		}
	}

The local interface can include SQLState() also for inspecting SQLState from DB2 CLI.

**SQLCODE** is a return code from a IBM DB2 SQL operation.
This code can be zero (0), negative, or positive.


	0 means successful execution.
	Negative means unsuccessful execution with an error.
	For example -911 means a lock timeout occurred with a rollback.
	Positive means successful execution with a warning.
	For example +100 means no rows found or end of table.

Search "SQL messages" in DB2 Information Center to find out more about SQLCODE.

**SQLSTATE** is a return code like SQLCODE.
But instead of a number, it is a five character error code that is consistent across all IBM database products.
SQLSTATE follows this format: ccsss, where cc indicates class and sss indicates subclass.
Search "SQLSTATE Messages" in DB2 Information Center for more detail.

###Connection String
This driver uses DB2 CLI function **SQLConnect** and **SQLDriverConnect** in driver.Open(...).
To use **SQLConnect**, start the name or the DSN string with keyword sqlconnect. This keyword is case insensitive.
The connection string needs to follow this syntax to be valid:


	"sqlconnect;[DATABASE=<database_name>;][UID=<user_id>;][PWD=<password>;]"

[...] means optional. If a database_name is not provided, then SAMPLE is
used as the database name. Also note that each keyword and value ends with
a semicolon. The keyword "sqlconnect" doesn't take a value but ends with a semi-colon.
Examples:


	db, err := sql.Open("cli", "sqlconnect;")
	db, err := sql.Open("cli", "sqlconnect; DATABASE=\"SAMPLE\";")

Any other connection string must follow the connection string rule that is
valid with SQLDriverConnect. For example, this is a valid dsn/connection string
for SQLDriverConnect:


	"DSN=Sample; UID=asif; PWD=secrect; AUTOCOMMIT=0; CONNECTTYPE=1;"

Examples:


	db, err := sql.Open("cli", "DSN=Sample; UID=asif; PWD=secrect; AUTOCOMMIT=0; CONNECTTYPE=1;")
	db, err := sql.Open("cli", "DATABASE=db; HOSTNAME=dbhost; PORT=40000; PROTOCOL=TCPIP; UID=me; PWD=secret;")

Search **SQLDriverConnect** in DB2 LUW *Information Center* for more detail.

## Installation
IBM DB2 for Linux, Unix and Windows (DB2 LUW) implements its own ODBC driver.
This package uses the DB2 ODBC/CLI driver through cgo.
As such this package requires DB2 C headers and libraries for compilation.
If you don't have DB2 LUW installed on the system, then you can install
the free, community DB2 version *DB2 Express-C*.
You can also use *IBM Data Server Driver package*. It includes the required headers and libraries
but not a DB2 database manager.

To install, download this package by running the following:


	got get -d github.com/asifjalil/cli

Go to the following directory:


	$GOPATH/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli

In that directory run the following to install the package:


	./install.sh

This script and this driver only works on Mac OS and Linux.

##Usage
See `example_test.go`.




## <a name="pkg-index">Index</a>

#### <a name="pkg-examples">Examples</a>
* [Package](#example_)

#### <a name="pkg-files">Package files</a>
[column.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/column.go) [conn.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/conn.go) [driver.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/driver.go) [error.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/error.go) [stmt.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/stmt.go) [strutil.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/strutil.go) [tx.go](/src/github.com/asifjalil/cli/tx.go) 










- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)
